[singing voice] Aniplex.
[Shirou groans]
I'm thinkin' we
should skip training today.
You took a pretty bad beating
out there, Saber.
[Saber] No, my injuries
pose no problem.
I am far more concerned
about you, Shirou.
Are you all right?
Me?
I think I'll be okay.
Well, do not hesitate
to speak up
if you are in any pain.
Sure.
[groaning and gasping]
[winces]
[sparking]
[Mashiro Ayano's "Ideal White"]
♪♪ ♪♪
[Mashiro singing in Japanese]
[groaning]
[grunts]
Pain's gone.
That's definitely a relief.
I hope Saber
can get enough rest.
I know.
Why don't I make
a nice breakfast
for her before she wakes up?
[groans, gasps]
[thuds]
[gasps]
[exhales]
Shirou?
[Shirou groans]
[gasps]
[Taiga] So, I know it may
be hard to believe,
but Mr. Kuzuki has called
in sick today.
[indistinct chatter]
[Boy] Mr. Kuzuki?
Seriously?
[Boy 2] I guess hell finally
froze over.
[Taiga] Settle down, everyone.
I know this is usually
your world history class,
but since I'm here now,
I thought it would only
make sense
to have an English pop quiz!
[Girl] What?
No, that's not fair!
‐ [Boy 3] Tyrant!
‐ [Boy 4] Taiga!
That's enough!
[grunts]
Final period for study hall
is my choice.
I may decide to end up making it
free time,
so it would serve you
to accept my kindness
when it's offered!
[all shouting]
[Shirou grunts]
[gasps]
[Girl 2] Classes have all
been dismissed.
Students are not allowed
to remain on campus
after school hours.
All students,
please leave immediately.
This could be bad.
My arm is numb
and it feels heavier somehow.
[grunts]
I totally forgot my meeting
with Tohsaka!
Well, I'm sure
if anything major came up,
she probably would have come
and found me.
Oh.
Sorry I got home late.
Lunch will be ready
in just a minute.
Damn!
What happened?
Never done that before.
It's kinda weird.
Huh.
[Shirou] Sorry.
I'll have this cleaned up
in a sec.
Don't sweat it.
I want you to just relax.
You must be
completely exhausted.
You need rest.
[Saber] It's fine.
I will clean up the mess myself.
Yeah, I guess.
Thanks.
[doorbell rings]
Oh.
[doorbell ringing]
[Shirou] Okay!
Yeah, I'm coming!
[groans]
‐ [grunts]
‐ [Shirou gasps]
Tohsaka!
What are you doing here?
Oh, drop the act.
You tried to skip out
on our meeting.
[Shirou] Skip out?
No!
Sure, I guess I forgot
to meet with you.
It just slipped my mind.
So what?
I never agreed to these
in the first place.
‐ [groans]
‐ [gasps]
I'm sorry!
I didn't mean to forget, okay?
As your ally,
I should have been
respectful enough
to have checked in with you.
It's fine.
I forgive you.
We'll just have
our meeting here.
But, uh, actually,
we were just about
to have our lunch.
[Rin] Oh, that sounds perfect.
I haven't gotten a chance
to eat yet.
Thanks, chef.
[giggles]
Uh, hey, wait a minute!
[groaning]
[Rin] I hate to say it,
but in the end,
our only chance against Caster
is direct brute force.
I believe so.
There is a powerful barrier
against spiritual beings
surrounding that mountain.
The front gate
is the only way in.
So when we force our way into
the temple,
Caster will be right
there waiting for us.
That's right.
Uh, wait a sec.
Why are you sitting
so far away from us?
Because you went and stole
my usual spot
without even asking me.
Hmm.
So we all see the problem,
right?
It'll be tough to corner Caster
once we're inside.
If we play this wrong,
she might blow up Ryuudou Temple
with all of us in it.
That's true.
Caster would do that.
Saber, you shouldn't say stuff
like that so lightly.
You really think Caster
would self destruct
if she were defeated?
Yeah, in a heartbeat.
She would.
No doubt.
[both grunting]
[both] Mm‐hmm.
Look at you two.
Perfect for each other.
[gasps]
[Shirou] Whoa, how'd it get
so late already?
Well, I guess we should wrap
things up here.
I better start preparing
for dinner before it's too late.
[groans]
Why are you staring?
Do you have something
to say to me, Emiya?
No.
I was just‐‐
[Rin] Oh!
I get it.
Outside we're both masters
so you don't ever really have
to think about it,
but now that we're
in your house,
you're feeling self conscious
about us, right?
So what if I am?
I'm a guy.
It's perfectly normal.
Don't you think it's
a little strange?
I mean, Saber is a girl,
right?
And the way I hear it,
both Ms. Fujimura and Sakura
are almost always here.
[Rin] I don't see why you should
be any different around me.
I really think it's time
for you to go home.
Oh?
Why would I go now
when we still haven't decided
our battle strategy?
[groans]
Shirou, I must say Rin does make
a valid point.
Even if she were to stay here,
I see no issues rising.
[groans]
Not you, too.
All right, fine.
But I know Fujine‐‐
uh, Ms. Fujimura
will be here soon,
and it's her that's who
you're gonna have to convince.
Yeah, I know, I know.
I have a plan for Ms. Fujimura
so don't you worry
your head about that.
[scoffs]
Don't blame me if she blows up
in your face.
[groans]
I'm home!
[Shirou] Welcome back.
[Taiga shudders]
It's so cold!
I think it's gonna snow tonight!
[exhales sharply]
Oh!
You're making hot pot!
Great!
‐ That's my Shirou.
‐ Ah, cold!
‐ You're as smart as ever.
‐ [Shirou] Be careful!
I'm working over
a hot stove here!
[Taiga] Just hurry up!
Hurry up!
[Shirou] Hey, stay away from me!
Hot pot, hot pot, hot pot!
There.
I hope I'm not imposing,
Ms. Fujimura.
Ah, it's Miss Tohsaka!
It's so unexpected
to see you here
at Shirou's place.
Wait.
[Taiga] What is the meaning
of this?
What on Earth is she doing here?
[clattering]
‐ [Shirou groaning]
‐ Tohsaka, explain yourself.
What are you doing here
this time of night?
Exactly where are your manners?
What do you mean?
Emiya has been gracious enough
to treat me to dinner
in his home.
What do you have to say,
Ms. Fujimura?
I think it's quite absurd
to barge in here without so much
as a knock on the door.
Uh, wha‐‐
I'll have you know I act
as the household chaperone!
Emiya's father left me
in charge.
We're practically family, okay?
‐ [Shirou groans]
‐ Oh, I see.
After dinner Emiya and I
have some studying to do
for a test.
Please don't worry about us.
What?
Shirou‐‐uh, Mr. Emiya,
uh, tell me what is going on!
Now, now.
If it's hard
to address him formally,
don't mind me.
I'm aware that
it's certainly none
of my business.
What you call him
doesn't concern me.
[gasps]
Um,
did you happen to hear
about this from Sakura?
I can't say.
[Rin] I'm so sorry
but I promised Miss Matou
that anything she told me would
be held in absolute confidence.
However, I do hope
it's all exactly
as you imagined, ma'am.
[groans]
Game, set, and match.
I will leave these here.
Okay.
Thank you.
Would you like me to help
with the dishes?
I can't just eat
your tasty dinner
and do nothing in return.
Nah, you can owe me.
[dish breaking]
[gasps]
[grunts]
[broken dish clattering]
[Shirou shuddering]
[dish shatters]
[both gasping]
Ms. Fujimura,
has Emiya always been
this clumsy?
No, not at all.
[Taiga] In fact I don't think
he's ever broken a dish
for as long as I've known him.
[Shirou groans]
I think he's probably feeling
a little nervous
because you're here.
He's not used to intruders,
you know.
[footsteps approaching]
‐ [grunts]
‐ [Rin] Hey, Emiya.
I'll take it from here.
You go and get some rest.
No, I'm fine.
[Rin] It's okay, really.
Why don't you relax
and have some tea?
[dramatic music]
♪♪ ♪♪
[Taiga] You sure
you shouldn't help her?
If you invite her here
and then make her clean up,
she'll end up hating you.
What?
Stop reading so much into this.
Look, I didn't invite her over
in the first place.
And besides,
I couldn't care less.
If Tohsaka hates me,
that's fine.
[grunts]
[Shirou] Hey, where'd she go?
I believe that she went outside
into the courtyard.
The courtyard?
[Shirou] Tohsaka?
I like your bounded field.
[Rin] You can really sense
the human emotion in this one,
unlike the one at my house.
Care to join me?
[dramatic music]
[grunts]
♪♪ ♪♪
[Shirou groans]
Okay.
Hmm, I think this house
is quite unique.
And it struck me that perhaps
you'd be better off
just staying the way
you are now.
You mean staying
a hopeless amateur?
I wouldn't have put it like that
but that's not too far off.
I don't actually know myself
what Kiritsugu Emiya
was like as a mage
but the energy here
is incredibly natural.
[Rin] For a mage's workshop,
it's very open,
as if one were just free
to come and go as you please.
[Shirou] So it's not like that
at your house?
[Rin] Not even close.
It's good at keeping people out
but really once you're in
it doesn't let you leave.
It's wrong but it's not like
it's something
that I can change.
It's just the way things are.
Personally, I've come to enjoy
the way that it is now.
I suppose I was chosen because
of this strong personality
of mine.
How has it been?
Was it hard for you?
Mage training, you mean?
I hate to break it to you,
but I never found it
to be difficult at all.
Besides, I always enjoyed
the chance
to learn something new.
So you see,
I was born this way
and I've always been like this.
Don't worry.
You can save your concern
for someone who really needs it.
[chuckles]
Sounds good.
[Shirou] So why are you
at school?
If you're gonna live
the life of a mage,
then why even bother?
It may be a detour
but it's not useless.
Being a student is fun.
Deep down I guess I'm really
just a hedonist at heart.
[Run] Sure, I'm duty‐bound
to succeed my father,
but I don't think I could do it
if I didn't actually enjoy it.
That's one of the reasons
I like our partnership.
You're pretty interesting,
Emiya.
Think so?
I'm glad to know
you're having a good time.
Yeah, thanks.
And you've been having fun most
of the time, too, right?
[exhales]
What is it?
Why don't you say something?
No, it's just...
[gasps]
[groans]
Tell me the truth.
Be honest.
It's fine,
but if I misunderstood,
I have to know now.
I guess that I‐‐I never thought
about mage training
as something that was fun.
Or magic,
for that matter.
For me,
it was more like I was happy
if people around me were happy.
[Shirou] The way I always saw it
was that if I learned magic,
then maybe I could end up
helping people someday.
[gasps]
[Shirou] I wanted to be a hero
of justice
just like Kiritsugu.
That's why I learned magic.
And I guess it's my reason
for sticking with all of this.
Let me get this straight.
You never thought
of studying magic
as doing something for yourself?
Huh?
Well, I never thought about it
like that.
‐ Not really.
‐ [grunts]
[Shirou] It makes me happy
to know that I can be useful
to others.
Really?
That's you being happy,
not magic being fun.
Look.
I wanna know about you.
I wanna know whether
or not you actually enjoy it.
I don't care about anyone else.
I'm asking you
if there's anything
about it that you consider
to be fun.
Is there anything about this
that's fun?
Hard to say.
I guess thinking like that
is a luxury I just don't feel
I deserve right now.
Come on!
Tell me the truth!
Fine.
Not really.
[grunts]
Dammit!
You really piss me off!
What you're telling me is that
you're always worrying
about others and never focusing
on yourself?
Wait a‐‐uh‐‐
[Rin] You shut up!
I'm talking now!
I've been thinking all this time
that they were just similar,
that's all,
but I never imagined they'd
be totally identical.
Hey, come on.
Chill out.
Why are you so angry?
What's the big deal?
[Rin] You don't get
why I'm angry,
and that's why I'm angry!
‐ [exhales]
‐ [scoffs]
Fine, then.
That settles it.
[Rin] I'm gonna make you
say uncle tomorrow.
You'll see.
Hey, wait.
You're not gonna
attack me again?
[Rin] I am.
I have something special
I've kept in reserve
and you're gonna get it!
[exhales]
[Shirou] Hey, you ready?
It's getting late.
You have to leave.
Come on.
I'll walk you home.
Time to get going.
[gasps]
[Rin] Oh, for goodness' sake,
would you stop shouting?
I heard you the first time.
[Shirou] W‐‐Where'd
you get those clothes?
I talked to Archer.
I had him bring me
an overnight bag
with some clothes in it.
‐ [Shirou] What?
‐ Relax.
I got Ms. Fujimura's permission.
[Rin] I'll be in the guest room
on the right.
[groans]
[dramatic music]
♪♪ ♪♪
Trace on.
[Shirou] Tracing
basic structure.
Strengthening
component materials.
♪♪ ♪♪
[grunts]
[door creaks open]
[gasps]
More magic training again
for you tonight?
[Shirou] Huh?
Yeah.
Kiritsugu pounded it into
my brain
that I can never miss a day.
But to tell the truth,
that was pretty much
the only thing he taught me.
Only that?
So he taught you nothing
of basic magical knowledge
or even mage behavior?
Nah, none of that stuff.
At the end of the day,
he really wasn't much
like a mage himself.
Not a typical adult.
[Shirou] He used to say,
"If you enjoy something,
enjoy it to the fullest."
And then he'd crack up laughing
like a little kid.
I see.
And you enjoyed your father
that way,
didn't you?
Yeah, I looked up to him.
He was a free spirit,
not like a mage at all,
but in my mind,
Kiritsugu was one
of the few true wizards.
Shirou.
[Saber] What is wrong with
the left side of your body?
Oh, yeah.
You noticed that, too?
Yes.
It's just a little numb,
that's all.
And don't worry.
It's not slowing me down.
[Saber] Do you know the cause?
Yeah.
I think it's related
to the projection magic I did.
‐ [gasps, grunts]
‐ [grunts]
[Archer] Do you find that most
of your body is still numb?
[Saber] You.
You really shouldn't
be surprised at all.
What do you want, Archer?
Last I heard,
we had a non‐aggression pact
in place.
Stop there.
If you insist on continuing,
be prepared to face
the consequences.
Hang on a sec.
He's not here to fight.
[Saber] Are you certain?
It's okay.
So, tell us what
you're doing here, Archer.
Just passing through?
Why don't I think you're here
to say hello?
[scoffs]
It must be true what Rin said
about you performing
a projection.
[Archer] Half your body is numb
and your center of gravity
is off by about
seven centimeters.
‐ Is that right?
‐ [gasps]
I might be of some help here.
[groans]
Consider yourself lucky.
I expected some necrosis.
It looks like something
that was closed has opened.
Something that was closed
has opened?
[Archer] Circuits that you
were supposed to use
when dormant when you
neglected them for so long.
Don't worry.
The numbness will go away.
When you suddenly flooded
those circuits
you weren't using with mana
at full power,
you essentially threw them into
a state of intense shock.
However, this means
that those circuits
are now active.
[grunts]
[shouts]
[gasps]
[Archer] There.
That should do it.
[gasping]
You'll make a full recovery
in a few days.
[Archer] And by that time you
should be a slightly better mage
than you were before.
[Saber] You certainly know
a lot about this, Archer.
I went through
something similar.
I completely lost use
of my arm for a time.
Hold on.
What is it?
I just need to know.
Ideals drag you down
to your death.
What the hell was that supposed
to mean?
It's self‐explanatory.
There's nothing more
to add to that.
So what is it, then?
Tell me what it is
you fight for.
It's obvious.
I fight for myself alone.
There's no other reason
to fight.
For yourself and nothing more?
Really?
That's right.
If your main desire
is to never hurt anyone,
then by all means,
do as you wish.
It's up to you.
But be careful.
Be certain it's your wish
and not anyone else's.
[gasps]
Know that if you fight
of your own free will,
any resulting sins
and punishments will be
of your own making.
Bearing it comes
with that decision.
[Archer] However, if that desire
was borrowed from another person
then the ideals you claim
are nothing more than fantasy.
There must be a reason
for fighting
but that reason must never be
an ideal.
If you fight for ideals,
then you will only ever be able
to save ideals.
That's all.
You won't be able
to help anyone.
A desire to save something
or someone stands out
as a reason to fight,
or at least it does for you.
Right, Emiya?
[gasps]
[Archer] Salvation at the hands
of another is never true.
Such salvation is like currency.
When used it passes on
to another.
It's indeed true that your wish
to save others can probably
be achieved,
but in doing so,
you must give up all hope
of saving yourself.
You shall cling to ideals
not your own,
and you will pursue them until
it destroys you in the end.
[grunts]
And that is why these ideals
you hold so dear
are meaningless.
[gasps]
[Archer] Nothing ever comes
of helping others,
because in the end,
you can save neither others
nor yourself.
That life is an illusion.
[Shirou] You're wrong.
You're wrong.
I know it.
[Kalafina's "Believe"]
♪♪ ♪♪
[chorus singing
in foreign language]
♪♪ ♪♪
[singing in Japanese]